The Department of Civil Engineering is the oldest engineering department of Pakistan which has actively contributed to transforming academia and developing educational infrastructure since 1922. At the undergraduate level, it offers a competitive four-year degree programme based on a comprehensive curriculum. In 1979, the department started its Postgraduate programme leading to master’s in civil engineering by course work, and at the verge of a new millennium, incepted Master of Engineering by research. The Department of Civil Engineering provides professional experience and has emerged as a dynamic, continuously evolving academic feature providing its people with a competitive edge over other institutions. 

The department of Civil Engineering has adopted Outcome Based Education (OBE) and Outcome-Based Assessment (OBA) for its Bachelor of Engineering (Civil), as recommended by the Engineering Accreditation Board (EAB) of Pakistan Engineering Council. The department and its people believe in establishing an environment conducive to continual improvement by maintaining the quality of education and ensuring that the knowledge imparts effectively, irrespective of teaching programmes conducted at undergraduate or postgraduate levels. 

The department of Civil Engineering strives to excel in teaching, research, and innovation in civil engineering and associated fields to produce professional engineers and leaders contributing towards purposeful and sustainable development at the national and global levels.

 

Chairman's Message
Prof. Dr. Abdul Jabbar Sangi

Welcome to the Department of Civil Engineering.

Over the years, our mission and vision have grown, and we are now a diverse department that provides undergraduate and graduate programmes with cutting edge inter-disciplinary research. The department is making all efforts to raise its standards through teaching, excellence, and quality research. The vision of the department is to be proficient in teaching, research, and innovative technologies in civil engineering. The department of civil engineering aims at engaging the students in lifelong learning and professional practices. Through the efforts of faculty, staff and students, our mission is to create opportunities for the students and faculty for conducting research that contributes to society through sustainable engineering practices.