The Department of Chemical Engineering at NED University with its track record of excellence in both teaching and research, now, being regarded as a leading Department of Chemical Engineering for our size in the country, by the industrial community. The Department has an immense impact in the formation of many professional and intellectual leaders in the Chemical Engineering profession and contributing to the Pakistani economy by supplying quality graduate chemical engineers to its booming chemical industry. Our highly qualified faculty members are engaged in several high value outreach activities locally and regionally.

The Department of Chemical Engineering at NED University provides creative and comfortable learning environment for the students with the experience of highly qualified Professors and technologically sound young and enthusiastic lecturers. At the department, we maintain several laboratories in order to give our undergraduates hands-on experience in a wide variety of chemical engineering specialties such as Thermodynamics, Heat transfer, Analytical chemistry, Fluid flow, Process control and Particulate technology. These labs are all connected. Building upon its strength, the department provides computing facility, by its modern Computer lab, with leading computational softwares such as ANSYS, HYSYS, ASPEN PLUS, MATLAB, SIMULINK, and many more. A state of the art Technical Information Center is placed for the students to provide them assistance in their Projects.

 Department FACTS & FIGURES
Outcome-Based Education (OBE) Implementation: The department has successfully implemented Outcome-Based Education (OBE) for our undergraduate program.
Alumni Success: Over 80% of our alumni are employed as Professional Engineers in the nation's leading Chemical Industries.
Research Excellence: We have contributed over 200 research publications to prestigious international journals, including American Chemical Society (ACS), Royal Society of Chemistry (RSC), Science Direct, Elsevier, and Springer, with a cumulative impact factor of 500+.
International Conference: The department has organized consecutive annual International Conferences in collaboration with industrial companies and the Higher Education Commission (HEC).
Industry Collaboration: Our students actively participate in industrially funded research projects and collaborative initiatives, enhancing their practical skills and knowledge.