Welcome to department of Petroleum Engineering

The Department of Petroleum Engineering resides in the Faculty of Civil Engineering and Petroleum. The undergraduate programme, oriented towards the upstream side of the industries, was launched in January 2005 and till date ten batches with total of over 400 students have been produced. The programme in fact owes its very existence to companies in exploration, production and distribution of Oil and Gas in Pakistan. The department maintains a very strong linkage with the industry that has very graciously extended its support. An active Model of Industry-Academia Linkage (NEDPIM) is in place . The Petroleum Advisory Board representing members from the Academia, Foreign university faculty and multinational oil & gas companies provide guidance in bringing the programme at par with renowned international universities and  to meet the requirements of the Petroleum industry.

Highly qualified regular faculty and subject experts from the industry provide in-depth knowledge in core areas with emphasis on the concepts and applications as per OBE based education. Spacious and well maintained labs equipped with state-of-the-art equipment are available for practicing and research. The department assures availability of internships to all students; trips to operational fields during the course of study and industry supervised final year projects. The students are encouraged to participate in co-curricular and extracurricular activities both on national and international level. An  active SPE-NED student chapter with international recognition provides an opportunity to students for personal and professional growth. The start the Master program (MEngg) and establishment of Norwegian Center of Excellence in Petroleum Studies are the significant achievement of the department that will ensure sustainability to quality in teaching and research.  

The efforts are to provide strong base for quality knowledge and research and to produce graduates equipped with standards of ethical and moral values, in order to be useful to the society in particular and to the humanity at large.