The following is the step-by-step admission procedure and application guide for Sindh Madressatul Islam University (SMIU):
Admission Procedure
Candidate can Apply Online at
admission.smiu.edu.pk
follow the instructions carefully. Call at 02199217501-03 (Ext:251) or 021-99213307 for any assistance. Admissions related queries can also be emailed to
admission@smiu.edu.pk
or queries@smiu.edu.pk
Before filling the form, candidates are advised to have access to all previous academic documents so that application can be completed timely
Admission portal will be open from 9:00am Sunday 05th December 2021 to 12:00 midnight 28th December 2021.
Visit
admission.smiu.edu.pk
and create your account. Carefully enter your CNIC as this could not be changed later.
Login to admission portal with the login credentials sent to your email and complete online form
After filling the form, a fee voucher (Application Processing Fee) will be available to the candidate for printing, which can be paid at any HBL branch.
Once the voucher is paid, a copy of paid challan along with following need to be uploaded at the admission portal.
Following documents also need to be submitted:
Paid Fee Challan
CNIC
SSC Mark sheet (For Undergraduate programs only)
HSC Mark sheet (For Undergraduate programs only)
Undergraduate Transcript (For Graduate programs only)
Graduate Transcript (For Postgraduate programs only)
Note: Candidates applying for BBA 2-Years and/or BEd. 2-Year need to upload their BA/B.Com/BSc transcript instead of HSC marksheet.
Duly filled admission form will be scrutinized by the concerned department as per criteria and applicants will be able to download Admit Card, Prospectus and Sample Test Paper once their admission application has been approved.
Test
On-Campus, computer based tests will be conducted for Undergraduate applicants on 1st-2nd January 2022. Final test time and date will be communicated via text message and portal.
No admission test will be conducted for Graduate and Postgraduate students as they are required to submit NTS results before the conclusion of 1st semester, otherwise they would not be allowed to enroll in 2nd semester
Interview
Interviews will be conducted for all shortlisted candidates from 07th to 09th January 2022. Final interview schedule will be communicated via email and text message. Candidates shall bring all the original documents at the time of Interview
Once admission has been offered after test and interviews, following documents shall be submitted at the admission office before deadline to complete admission process:
Required for all programs
Copy of Online filled Registration Form.
Original paid admission application fee voucher
Original Paid fee challan according to the fee schedule
Two recent photographs (Passport Size with white background).
Copy of Computerized National Identity Card or NADRA form or Form B. (Attested)
Copy of Domicile Certificate & PRC of the candidate. (Attested)
(Parents domicile is required if the applicant is under 18 years of age and his/her name is included in it).
Academic Documents for Undergraduate Programs:
Attested Copy of H.S.C. Part- I & II Passed Mark Sheets & Certificates. In case of O Level & A level final result with an equivalency certificate (issued by IBCC) is mandatory. (Copy of First Year’s Mark Sheet in case of result awaiting)
Copy of Character Certificate from the Principal of the Institute last attended.
Copy of Admit Card of last exam attended. (Attested)
Academic Documents for Graduate Programs:
Copy of S.S.C. Part II Passed Mark Sheets & Certificates. (Attested)
Copy of H.S.C. Part II Passed Mark Sheets & Certificates. (Attested)
Copy of Bachelor’s Mark Sheet & Degree. (Attested)
Copy of Master’s Transcript & Degree if applicable. (Attested)
Academic Documents for Postgraduate Programs:
Copy of S.S.C. Part II Passed Mark Sheets & Certificates. (Attested)
Copy of H.S.C. Part II Passed Mark Sheets & Certificates. (Attested)
Copy of Bachelor’s Mark Sheet & Degree. (Attested)
Copy of Master’s Transcript & Degree if applicable (Attested)
Copy of MS/Mphil (or equivalent) Transcript & Degree.
Note
Admission offer letters shall only be sent to successful candidates.
The selected candidates shall be required to register before the deadline mentioned in the offer letter; failure to do so shall result in the cancellation of his / her admission
Candidates with valid NTS (NAT/ GAT) test are however exempted from SMI University admissions aptitude test for Undergraduate & Graduate programs