academic-policies
Home
Admissions
academic-policies
Undergraduate / Graduate Academic Regulation
Academic Year
There will be two regular semesters (Fall and Spring) in an academic year. Each semester will spread over 16-18 weeks (inclusive of 1 - 2 weeks for exams).SMIU may enroll students (if they fulfill SMIU enrollment criteria) for any semester or for any single course and will issue transcript with letter grade(s) at the end of that semester.
Summer Semester
A student who has either failed or has been stopped to take the examination due to shortage of attendance or wishes to improve his/her grade is allowed to register in summer semester.
A student will only be allowed to register maximum of 2 courses (of 6 credit hours).
The contact hours per week during the Summer Semester will be adjusted accordingly to ensure that the course is completely taught in a summer session as compared to a regular (Fall/Spring) semester (i.e. total duration will be at least 48 hours including final examination).
Academic Load
Undergraduate Students:
Students are expected to be enrolled on a full-time basis. To be considered a fulltime undergraduate degree candidate, a student must be registered in a minimum of five courses (15 Credit Hours). Students ordinarily are expected to proceed at the rate of 18 credits per semester.
Enrollment in fewer than five courses (15 credits) in any regular semester (Fall / Spring) requires advance approval. Student may enroll for more than 18 credit hours if his/her CGPA is above 3.5 or in case of repeating/failed/dropped course or if he/she is graduating student.
Graduate Students
A student normally enrolls for 9-12 credit hours in a regular semester. A graduate student must take at least 9 credit hours in a regular semester to be classified as a full-time student.
The SMIU may allow a student to take extra course(s) in a semester depending on unique circumstances of the student.
Academic Calendar
The SMIU will announce the academic calendar of the following academic year during second semester (spring of every academic year).
All religious and national holidays in the Islamic republic of Pakistan are official holidays of SMIU and makeup classes will be rescheduled as per University rules to compensate the missing classes.
In case of unforeseen closure of University, the makeup classes will be rescheduled as per University rules to compensate the missing classes.
Enrollment / Registration in Courses
Students are required to choose the courses they wish to enroll in, prior to the start of a semester. For this purpose the University will publish a schedule for enrollment of students. The students may make any change (add/drop) in the courses they are taking within second week of the semester.
Students may not be allowed to add/drop a course after the end of the second week of the semester.
Students may be allowed to withdraw from a course during 6th week of the semester (Academic Calendar will reflect these dates). In such a case the transcript shall record that the student enrolled in the course and withdrew. Consequently, grade “W” will be awarded to the student, which will have no impact on the calculation of the GPA of the student.
student withdrawing after the 6th week will be automatically awarded “F” grade, which will be counted in the GPA
Repeating Courses
If the student gets ‘F’ grade, he/she will be required to repeat the course.
Undergraduate students (who is maintaining CGPA 2.0 or above and desire to improve CGPA) may be allowed to repeat a course in which he/she has
Cancellation of Admission
Admission will be stand cancelled automatically without any notification if a student remains absent for 30 consecutive days (without information) after the commencement of the semester.
Freezing of Semester
she will resume his/her studies from the same stage where he/she left (froze). No freezing during the semester will be allowed. The maximum duration of the degree program will remain the same. Freezing of Semester will only be allowed after successful completion of 1st Semester.
If a student is not enrolled in any course in a semester then he/she will not be considered a regular student of University in that period. The student may then enroll in these courses in a subsequent semester; however, he/she will have to meet pre-requisites of any course taken. In addition, it is understood that the University is not required to offer all courses in each semester.
Student Assessment
In each semester, students may be required to appear in quizzes, midterms, final examinations, presentations (individual/group), group discussion, and submit projects/assignments/lab reports. These assessment marks (to be determined by the teacher concerned) will have different weight-age (depending on course to course) contributing towards the overall assessment in percent marks. The weight-age at SMIU is based on following criteria.
Course Work Evaluation (Tests/ Quizzes/ Assignments / Project etc.)40
40
Mid Term Examination
20
Final Examination
40
Note:
In case of Lab based course 25% weightage will be assigned to Lab portion of that course.
There will be no Supplementary/Special Examination in a Semester System; if a student fails in a course, he/she is required to repeat it. An incomplete grade “I” will be awarded only in exceptional cases beyond the control of a student such as serious accidents, family tragedy, serious health ailments, etc.
In the beginning of a semester, the Instructor of each course will hand out the information to students as provided in the “course outlines” that defines attendance policy, grade distribution policy, assessment criteria, paper specification, examination dates, schedule of material to be taught, Take home assignment policy, reading material and any other information important for the successful completion of the course.