Business Administration Department Vision is to produce Business Leaders through exceptional quality education, applied knowledge and ethical values. We provide excellent learning environment to students in which they are encouraged to think critically & creatively. The culture of the organization is based on Discipline, Merit, Team work, hard work, Honesty, Sincerity & Dedication. Our focus is not only on academic excellence of students but also on their all-around development, by exposing them to international & national trips & visits.

Department also strives to provide an exceptional research environment to its students by providing sophisticated facilities and best Human & Physical resources.

The department is not only producing business leaders through imparting technical knowledge but also useful citizens by inculcating in them the moral values.

Degree Programs
Currently the Department of Business Administration is offering following programs:

BBA 4 years
BBA 2 years (After 14 years of Education)
BS (Entrepreneurship)
BS (Public Administration)
BS (Economics)
MBA 2 years
MBA 1.5 years
MS (Public Administration)
MS (Management Sciences)
PhD (Management Sciences)

Introduction
The Department offers various programs at Undergraduate, Graduate and Postgraduate level, which have been designed in the light of guidelines provided by HEC. At the end of their studies, the students are equipped with a thorough knowledge of their profession including different types of business structure, business cultures and managerial functions, as well as political, social, economic, technological and ethical considerations affecting business. They have tremendous opportunities in the business management concerns.

Three Distinctions of the Department
Located in Karachi’s Business Hub: The Department is located in the Business Hub of Karachi i.e., I.I Chundrigar Road, which is known as Wall Street of Karachi. Most of the multinational and national trading houses, banks, financial institutions as well as Karachi Chamber of Commerce & Industry are located on walking distance from the Department. Living in the ‘Business Environment’s is one of the advantages that the Business Administration students of SMIU enjoy in addition to opportunities for internships.

Quality Education at Minimum Cost: Being a Public-Sector institution, SMIU charges minimum fees while providing quality education in a state-of-the-art academic facilities. It charges about one-sixth of the fee charged by other comparable institutions for Business education programs.

PhD Faculty: The Department is privileged to have highly qualified and devoted faculty with PhD and MS degrees from the best national and international universities. The department has the highest number of PhD Faculty as compared to other departments of SMIU.