Department of Artificial Intelligence & Mathematical Sciences

The Department’s mission is to educate and train students to become competent professionals to serve the society in many ways. To prepare our new generation and equipped them with the modern state-of-the-art curriculum, SMI university launched the Department of Artificial Intelligence and Mathematical Sciences to fulfilled the demand of the technologically advanced society not only to its local industrial market but also to the foreign countries to generate and increase its foreign exchange in the form of human resource.

Common BS in Artificial Intelligence and Mathematical Sciences careers include; intelligence analysis, operational research, statistical research, logistics, financial analysis, market research (for business), management consultancy, IT (systems analysis, development or research), software engineering, computer programming, the public sector (advisory capacity as a scientist or statistician), scientific research and development and all those field which needs highly analytical thinking mind.

SMIU is located in the area where several IT organizations, software houses, institutions, and government organizations’ networks are located. This enables students to seek internships, etc., as well as familiarize themselves with IT related environment. The department provides an excellent environment for its students. There are three state-of-the-art computer labs: two computing laboratories with the latest core i7 machines, and one hardware laboratory. The computers are connected through a state-of-the-art network environment. The Department offers the following academic programs:


BS Artificial Intelligence (AI)
BS- Mathematical Sciences
MS- Mathematical Sciences
PhD Artificial Intelligence (AI)
PhD-Mathematical Sciences
The Department is also privileged to have highly qualified, multi-cultural and devoted faculty with Ph.D. and MS / M. Phil. degrees from the best national and international universities.