Degree Programs
The Department of Media and Communication Studies is offering following programs:

BS Media Studies
MS Media Studies
PhD. Media Studies
Degree Programs
The media has emerged as a great institution of nation building in modern times. This requires that the future media-persons should have adequate academic foundation as to serve the country and their respective profession in a better manner. SMI University’s department of Media and Communication Studies has been established with that objective in mind.

The importance of the Department increases with the fact that the University is located in the area where leading media outlets, both print and electronic, like Daily Dawn, Daily Jang, The News, as well as almost all the major satellite television networks are located.

The Department has its own television studio as well as FM Radio station, providing an opportunity for hands-on training on latest broadcasting equipment.

Mission Statement
The Department of Media and Communication Studies aims to bring communication philosophy aligned with Media and Society by inculcating new ideas in the field of Mass Communication. The department is providing hands on training to its students by infusing in them the professional values so that they can serve the field as well as the society in befitting manner.

Vision Statement
The Department of Media and Communication Studies envisions to serve as a premier interdisciplinary professional institution where the innovative ideas and enlightened voices will inspire the world for better change through communication.

Three Distinctions of the Department
Television and Radio studio: The Department of Media and Communication Studies at SMIU has its own state-of- the art television studio and FM Radio studio to serve as its broadcasting laboratories. Both the studios offer hands-on training to the students.

Location on Media Street: SMIU is located in the area where leading media outlets, both print and electronic, like Daily Dawn, Daily Jang, Daily Express Tribune, Daily The News, as well as almost all the major television networks are located.