SZABIST is a non-profit and Chartered Institute of Science and Technology, Established through Legislative Act of the Sindh Assembly (Sindh Act No. XI of 1995). SZABIST has been awarded the status of University in September 2023 through amendment in Sindh Act No. XIX of 2023.

At present, SZABIST University has campuses in Karachi, Islamabad, Larkana, Hyderabad, Dubai and Gharo.

Programs

SZABIST University Karachi offers forty-two programs in the disciplines of Management Sciences, Media Sciences, Social Sciences, Education, Biosciences, Biotechnology, Public Health, Computer Sciences, Mechatronic Engineering, Robotics and Artificial Intelligence. Its International Programs include LLB (University of London, UK) and BA (Hons.) in Business Studies in collaboration with Coventry University, UK.

Current Enrollment/Graduates

SZABIST University comprises of a diverse student population of approximately 19,500. Collectively, approximately 36,000 talented graduates have been proudly awarded degrees by all the campuses of SZABIST University. Our alumni are sought by national and multinational organizations and hold key positions in several reputable firms.

Ranking and International Recognitions

Higher Education Commission (HEC), Pakistan has ranked SZABIST University as one of the best business schools of Pakistan in their recent Quality-Based Ranking.

The Chartered Inspection and Evaluation Committee (CIEC) in their latest evaluation rated SZABIST University as an “Outstanding” institution by awarding it “6 Stars”, the highest ranking; SZABIST University has been ranked Six Stars continuously from 2008-2012. Mechatronic Engineering department has been rated as “World Class” and has been awarded “7 Stars”, whereas Departments of Management Sciences, Computing, Social Sciences, Media Sciences and Biosciences have been individually rated as “Outstanding”.

SZABIST University is a member of many prestigious national and international organizations and associations. These include the International Association of Universities (IAU), Paris, Association of Commonwealth Universities (ACU), London, the Association to Advance Collegiate School of Business (AACSB), Singapore, Federation of the Universities of Islamic World (FUIW), Rabat, Asia Universities Federation (AUF), Seoul, Asia-Pacific Quality Network (APQN), People’s Republic of China, Management Association of Pakistan (MAP), Karachi, Marketing Association of Pakistan, Karachi, and Human Resource Development Network, Islamabad.

BusinessWeek, the leading international business magazine, has listed SZABIST University among the best business schools of the world for six years (2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2006 &. 2008).

Asia Inc, a leading Asian Magazine, has ranked SZABIST University among the top MBA Schools of South Asia in its Asia’s Best MBA Schools Survey for two consecutive years (2003, 2004). SZABIST University is one of the top 15 business schools from South Asia ranked in Asia Inc.

SZABIST University is also ranked among the best Science and Technology and MBA schools in Asia by the CNN-Time publication, Asia week. SZABIST University is also listed in the CNN Executive Education Schools, 2009.