BACHELOR DEGREE PROGRAMS
BBA
SZABIST offers a four-year (eight semesters) BBA degree program of 144 credit hours. This is SZABIST’s flagship program. For the BBA program, students are required to complete 47 courses and 03 credit hours Business Project, a 02 credit hours Community Service Project and 03 credit hours Graded Internship. The students will take 4 Program Electives courses from Management, Marketing, Finance, Business Analytics, IT or Supply Chain Management. To obtain the BBA degree, students have to complete 144 credit hours including a six week graded internship. The maximum time limit for degree completion is six years, offering flexibility to learners. BBA program is under the process of reaccreditation with ACCA.BBA Program has been accredited by National Business Education Accreditation Council (NBEAC) and is also affiliated with Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) Institute.

BS (Accounting & Finance)
SZABIST offers a four-year (eight semesters) Bachelor of Science (Accounting & Finance) program, consisting of 46 Courses (six courses per semester) and a 6 credit hours Research Project. Students have to complete 144 credits hours along with six weeks of internship to obtain the BS Accounting & Finance (BS A & F) degree . The maximum time limit to complete the degree program is six years. Those who complete BS (A&F) from SZABIST will get an exemption in ACCA papers from F1 to F9.


BS Entrepreneurship
SZABIST offers a four-year (eight semesters) BS Entrepreneurship degree program of 144 credit hours. For the BS in Entrepreneurship program, the students are required to complete 45 courses and 9 credit hours of Capstone Projects. The courses include 41 compulsory courses and 4 electives. To obtain the BS Entrepreneurship degree, students have to complete 144 credit hours and 2 apprenticeships. Maximum time limit to complete the BS in Entrepreneurship (BSE) degree is six years.

BS (Computer Science)
SZABIST University offers a four-year (eight semesters) BS Computer Science degree program which is accredited by National Computing Education & Accreditation Council, (NCEAC). The program covers a wide range of courses in core computer science, information technology and software engineering. The program is essentially a day program and consists of 44 courses (ﬁve/six courses per semester) with a total of 130 credit hours. The complete course plan includes 7 technical electives and 2 university electives. These 7 technical electives provide intensive learning in the diverse areas of computer science and allied disciplines. Internship opportunities are provided to complete degree requirements. The maximum time limit to complete the degree program is six years.

Bachelor of Science in Autonomous Systems and Artificial Intelligence
SZABIST offers a four-year (eight semesters) Bachelor of Science in Autonomous Systems and Artificial Intelligence degree. The program covers a wide range of courses in core Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, Knowledge Representation & Reasoning, Natural Language Processing etc. The program is a day program and consists of 41 courses with a total of 130 credit hours. The Internship opportunities are provided to complete degree requirement. The maximum time limit to complete the degree program is six years. Following are the program educational objectives of (BS AI):
PEO 1: To equip students with necessary skills and knowledge to solve complex problems in real- world settings.
PEO 2: To produce graduates practicing in the area of Artificial Intelligence in a socially and ethically responsible way.
PEO 3: To prepare students for lifelong learning skills in Artificial Intelligence and allied disciplines.


BS Software Engineering
The BS Software Engineering program is offered through a trained foreign qualified faculty. It consists of 42 courses with a total of 130 credits hours. The maximum duration to complete the degree is six years.

BE Mechatronics
SZABIST offers a four-year (eight semesters) BE Mechatronic Engineering degree program, which is accredited by Pakistan Engineering Council (PEC). This program has received 7-Stars i.e., World Class rating by Chartered Inspection & Evaluation Committee (CIEC) Sindh. SZABIST is a pioneer university to offer this program at undergraduate level in the province of Sindh. The program is essentially a day program and consists of 49 courses with a total of 139 credit hours (all electives and certain courses may be offered in the evening). The program is supported through well-equipped state-of-the-art laboratories. Internship opportunities are provided which is essential as a part of degree requirement. The maximum time limit to complete the BE-ME degree program is seven years.


BS (Social Sciences)
SZABIST offers a four-year (eight semesters) BS Social Sciences degree with majors in Psychology, Sociology, Economics, International Relations and Sindh Studies. BS Program is essentially a day program and consists of 46 courses (plus a six credit hour, two-part final year Research Thesis) with a total of 144 credit hours. The maximum time limit to complete the BS degree is six years.


BS Psychology
SZABIST offers a four-year (eight semesters) BS Psychology degree program. To obtain a BS degree in Psychology, students are required to complete a total of 139 credit hours within 6 years. The degree consists of a total of 47 courses (139 credit hours) including internship (3 Credit Hours) and a Research Project/Capstone Project (6 Credit Hours).

BS Psychology

To obtain BS degree in Psychology, students are required to complete a total of 139 credit hours within 6 years. The degree consists of a total of 47 courses (139 credit hours) including internship (3 Credit Hours) and a Research Project/Capstone Project (6 Credit Hours).


Bachelor of Science in Business Analytics (BSBA)
SZABIST offers a four-year (eight semesters) BSBA degree program of 144 credit hours. This is an innovative program designed to blend business knowledge with advanced computing and analytical skills. For the BSBA program, students are required to complete 48 courses, a 03 credit hours Capstone Project, and 03 credit hours Graded Internship. The students will take 4 Program Elective courses from Finance, Marketing, Human Resource Management (HRM), or Supply Chain Management (SCM). To obtain the BSBA degree, students must complete 144 credit hours. The maximum time limit to complete the BSBA degree is six years.


BS (Media Sciences)
The Faculty of Media Sciences at SZABIST offers a comprehensive 4-year Bachelor of Science in Media Science degree program with majors in Film and Television production, Advertising Strategy & Design and Journalism. To earn an undergraduate degree, students must enroll in and successfully complete a total of 135 credit hours which include 43 courses, a 6-credit thesis, and an internship (Forty-three courses include: 33 core courses, 7 major requirements in in Film and Television production, or Advertising Strategy & Design or Journalism and 3 open electives). All students must complete their degree within six years.


Bachelor of Science in Food Science and Technology (BS FST)
BS Food Science and Technology at SZABIST is a four-year program spread over eight semesters and consists of 138 credit hours of teaching (46 courses), an internship of at least six weeks (3 credits), and a capstone project of 3 credit hours. The maximum time limit to complete the BS degree is six years.


BS Computational Biology
The BS Computational Biology program at SZABIST is a four-year degree spread over eight semesters, comprising 142 credit hours of coursework (47 courses). It includes an internship of at least six weeks (3 credit hours) and a capstone project (3 credit hours). The maximum time allowed to complete the BS degree is six years.

S Biosciences (BS Bio)
BS Biosciences at SZABIST is a four-year program spread over eight semesters and consists of 135 credit hours of teaching (43 courses), an internship of at least six weeks, and a research report of 6 credit hours. The maximum time limit to complete the BS degree is six years.


BS Biotechnology (BS Biotech)
BS Biotechnology at SZABIST is a four-year program spread over eight semesters and consists of 136 credit hours of teaching (44 courses), an internship of at least six weeks, and a research report of 6 credit hours. The maximum time limit to complete the BS degree is six years.


BS Public Health (BS PH)
BS Public Health at SZABIST is a four-year program spread over eight semesters and consists of 130 credit hours of teaching (42 courses), an internship of at least six weeks, and a research report of 6 credit hours. The maximum time limit to complete the BS degree is six years.


BS Nutrition and Dietetics
BS Nutrition and Dietetics at SZABIST is a four-year program spread over eight semesters and consists of 138 credit hours of teaching (46 courses), an internship of at least six weeks (03 credit hours), and a capstone project of 03 credit hours. The maximum time limit to complete the BS degree is six years.
BS Public Health and Bachelor of Science in Nutrition and Dietetics
Candidates are required to have 50% marks in Intermediate (FSc with Pre-Medical and FSc with Pre-Engineering) or O-Levels (minimum 8 subjects including 5 compulsory subjects; English, Urdu, Maths, Islamiyat & Pakistan Studies) and A-levels (minimum 3 subjects including any two of these subjects; Biology, Chemistry, and Physics).


Bachelor of Law (LLB) – University of London, UK
SZABIST offers an LLB from the University of London. This is an evening program and can be completed in three years. Please refer to the separate SZABIST brochure and University of London website (www.londoninternational.ac.uk) for details.

BS English

BS English program at SZABIST opens doors to a wide and dynamic range of career pathways, preparing students for impactful roles in academia, education, writing, media, corporate sectors, technology, and public service. With strong foundations in literature, linguistics, communication, and research, graduates excel as teachers, researchers, content creators, journalists, editors, corporate communicators, and HR or L&D professionals. The program also equips students for emerging fields such as Artificial Intelligence, Digital Humanities, NLP, Speech Recognition, EdTech, and Computational Linguistics, alongside specialized areas like Forensic Linguistics, Corpus Linguistics, and Speech Therapy. Graduates further contribute to national development through roles in civil services, policymaking, curriculum reforms, NGOs/INGOs, and university research and administration. With its interdisciplinary focus and real-world applicability, the BS English degree empowers students with versatile skills, global relevance, and limitless career opportunities.
