Merit Scholarships for Bachelor Students at Fast University
Merit scholarship is awarded to the Top Three position holders of each Examination Board in the year of admission.

Scholarship is also offered to top three position holders in the merit list of NU admission merit list.

This scholarship is for four years of un-interrupted studies with full course load and is equal to the full tuition fee. Continuation of merit scholarship is subject to maintaining semester GPA of 3.0 or higher.

HEC Scholarships for MS and PhD students
The Higher Education Commission (HEC) provides liberal scholarships to students desirous of studying for the MS and PhD degrees at this university. The scholarship covers tuition fee, monthly stipend and book allowance.

Punjab Educational Endowment Fund (PEEF) Scholarships
The Government of Punjab gives 42 scholarships to indigent students having domicile of Punjab. Newly admitted students in any campus of the university can apply for this scholarship.
The scholarship is for 4-year undergraduate studies and covers some portion of the tuition fee. The remaining tuition fee can be given by the University as Qarz-e-Hasna.

Sindh Government Endowment Board Scholarships
The Sindh Government offers scholarships to students of Karachi campus on need-cum-merit for both under-graduate and graduate studies. The scholarship covers full tuition fee for entire duration of the program, renewable every year. The quota for students from rural sector is 60%, and the remaining 40% is for the students from urban sector. About 25 new scholarships are offered every year under this scheme.

Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Education Foundation Scholarship
The Khyber Pakhtunkhwa government offers scholarships to students of Peshawar campus on need-cum-merit to BS and MS studies with equal male to female ratio. The scholarship covers 80% of the tuition fees for the entire duration of the program. Interested students can apply online on KPEF website directly after annual call is circulated, following which they will be interviewed on campus.

Baluchistan Government Endowment Board Scholarship
Baluchistan Government offers scholarships to students of Karachi campus on need-cum-merit for both under-graduate and graduate studies. The scholarship covers full tuition fee for entire duration of the program, renewable every year.

OSAF Financial Assistance (Study Loan)
OSAF (Old Students Association of FAST) arranges financial assistance for those students who cannot afford to pay their full fee.

Other Scholarships
In addition to the above scholarships there are various community based scholarships offered by various committees and foundations such as, Memon Community Scholarships, Bohra Community Scholarships, INFAQ Foundation scholarships, Agha Khan Foundation Scholarships, etc.

For Karachi campus, Alumni Association, Hindu Community, and Agha Khan Foundation also provides scholarships in limited numbers.

Assistantships
The University may utilize the services of its students in its different activities. These students are compensated for rendering their services.

Bank Loans
PICIC Commercial Bank, NIB Bank, Bank Alfalah, Bank Islami and MCB offer loans to students.

Study Loan / Financial Assistance
Realizing that the fees may not be affordable for some of its students, FAST arranges financial assistance in the form of interest-free, need based study loans for bright indigent students. This assistance is subject to renewal every semester in light of the student’s academic performance. Financial assistance is limited to tuition fee only and is discontinued if the student’s CGPA falls below the minimum specified to avoid warning. Loan recipients MUST take full load of courses offered.

Click Here to download loan application form
Applying for Study Loan
Applicants desirous of seeking study loan should apply for this purpose on the prescribed form available from all campuses or downloadable from the University web site.

Repayment of Study Loan
The repayment of loan starts three months after graduation or soon after getting employment, whichever is earlier. The total amount has to be repaid within a period of four years after graduation. Students are required to sign a contract allowing future employers to deduct loan repayments at source and remit it to the University.