About the BBA program at IBA
The BBA program comprises of four years of rigorous education which allows the student to have a broader view of the world. Students go through an academic program that not only emphasizes the essentials of business subjects, but also introduces them to the basic concepts of Social Sciences and Liberal Arts. In their freshman and sophomore years, students study subjects such as History, Anthropology, Philosophy and Logic, Psychology and Media Studies. Additionally, students are required to undergo training in a foreign language and can choose among four languages: Arabic, Chinese, French and German. All BBA students are required to enroll for Personal Effectiveness, a non-credit course which builds and enhances the soft skills. Students now have option to specialize in Marketing, Finance, Management Information Systems (MIS), Human Resource Management (HRM), Entrepreneurship. Based on the feedback from the alumni and human resource representatives of major corporations, the IBA has included the aspect of experiential knowledge into the curriculum of BBA program. Students now undergo a six month long, on-the-job training in the real business environment. This not only allows them to network with their future employers, but it also introduces them to the challenges of the real business world.

About the BS Business Analytics Program at IBA

The BS Business Analytics program offers a cutting-edge, four-year education designed to equip students with the tools, technologies, and methodologies to transform data into actionable business strategies. This program emphasizes the integration of data analytics with core business principles, enabling students to address complex challenges in today's rapidly evolving digital economy.

During their studies, students will delve into subjects that blend technology and business, such as Business Intelligence, Data Visualization, and Predictive Analytics.

Bachelor of Science (B.S.) Accounting and Finance program at IBA

Bachelor of Science (B.S.) Accounting and Finance program is a 4-year degree, first introduced in 2013. providing an exclusive opportunity for students to receive an academic degree that may lead to a professional qualification. BSAF program is recognized by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Pakistan (ICAP) and Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) with the following exemptions available from these professional bodies:

Institute of Chartered Accountants of Pakistan (ICAP)

An exemption of four papers of AFC stage, 9 papers of CAF stage (old module A to D), and the Presentation and Communication Skills Course (PCSC-01) will be granted to the prospective CA students who register with ICAP after completing their BSAF degree from IBA. After registering as a student with ICAP, the students would be required:

To complete training for 3 years (save 6 months) at an approved training organization; and
Pass 6 papers of CFAP and 2 papers of MSA (old module E and F)
Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA)
ACCA has exempted 9 examinations (F1 to F9) to BSAF graduates. ACCA offers IBA students to enroll in an accelerate program, where students can sit in advance level papers of ACCA while studying at IBA and save the total time required to complete the qualification. BS Accounting and Finance graduates have to appear in only 4 professional level papers of ACCA.

Other organizations/professional bodies
Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA) and Institute of Bankers Pakistan are expected to provide exemptions to BSAF graduates subject to completion of certain elective courses. These exemptions are given by these bodies on case-to-case bases.

Chartered Financial Analyst Institute does not grant any exemptions as a principle, but BSAF courses, especially related to Finance, are closely aligned with CFA Level 1 and Level 2 syllabus to facilitate students to complete the exams. Many of the final year students successfully pass Level 1 of CFA before their graduation.

Few graduates have successfully received exemptions at CPA Australia.


bout the BS Computer Science
The Department of Computer Science is one of the two departments at the School of Mathematics and Computer Science (SMCS) at the Institute of Business Administration (IBA) Karachi. The department offers bachelor, master and doctoral degree programs in Computer Science. The department has recently launched a long-awaited master's program in Data Science.

The full-time faculty members of the department teach a variety of courses over a wide range of the entire computer science spectrum. Some of the areas of specialization of full-time faculty members are in theory, machine learning/AI, quantum computation, computer vision, text analytics, robotics, computer architecture, and human-computer interaction.

Some of the many strengths of the department include its high faculty-to-student ratio, the state-of-the-art facilities, the renowned visiting faculty from the industry to teach the industry-specific courses, the strong focus on undergraduate education, and research. The faculty emphasizes interdisciplinary and encourages students to work with them as well as the faculty of other departments and schools.

Graduates from the department can join computing industry, multinational organizations, startups, consulting companies, government service, and nonprofit organizations. The tech industry in Pakistan is quick to offer jobs and internships to the students of the program and often offer them better opportunities for personal and professional growth. Many of our students get enrolled in the graduate programs of the leading universities around the world as well. Moreover, the alumni network of our department is very strong, and they provide continuous support to our existing student body in terms of guidance and mentoring.

BS) Economics at IBA
Bachelor of Science (BS) Economics program is a 4-year degree program designed to give students a solid foundation in economics. The program provides a well-coordinated curriculum and prepares the students for entry-level positions in private and public sector corporations, development organizations, banks, education, and research organizations. The wide range of courses offered in this program give students ample opportunities to broaden their knowledge base. The economics research project in the final year enables students to apply the quantitative tools learned in the program to the economic and ﬁnancial problems in the public and private sectors.

Bachelor of Science (BS) Economics and Mathematics at IBA
Bachelor of Science (BS) Economics program is a 4-year degree program designed to give students a solid foundation in economics. The program provides a well-coordinated curriculum and prepares the students for entry-level positions in private and public sector corporations, development organizations, banks, education, and research organizations. The wide range of courses offered in this program gives students ample opportunities to broaden their knowledge base. The economics research project in the final year enables students to apply the quantitative tools learned in the program to the economic and ﬁnancial problems in the public and private sectors.


About the Program Bachelor of Science (BS) Mathematics at IBA
Bachelor of Science (BS) Mathematics is a 4-year degree program. This program uniquely offers the opportunity of earning concentrations in allied areas of sciences while adhering to the mathematics core. The flexibility and diversity that this scheme offers to students in studying mathematics, aligns with the current common structure of the BS Math programs worldwide while keeping in line with HEC guidelines. Regular academic and professional career development guidance is available to students to help them cope with the challenges more effectively.

Why a degree in BS Mathematics?
The diversity of Mathematics as a field, and the vast variety of its applications have revitalized its importance in the modern world. With the exponential growth in the number of mathematical tools being employed globally for problem solving, the potential of this discipline is profound. Keeping the growing need in mind, this program trains students for both academia and industry simultaneously. We aim to produce students having the potential to achieve the objectives of this program and to enable them in choosing suitable careers which will ultimately help them in becoming a capable and useful member of the academia and the society.

Program Objectives
The objective of the program is to prepare graduates with a diverse set of skills, attributes and field knowledge which are the key ingredients for a successful career. The program aims to produce students who:

Are equipped with sufficient analytical and computational skills for a successful corporate career, or a career in education, or technical industry.
Are a good amalgam of theoretical knowledge and its practical applications (as the latter is of utmost importance towards development of a successful career).
Are independently capable of modeling the problem at hand, using mathematical tools and knowledge at their disposal.
Are not only able to adjust, but also thrive globally in a dynamic academic setting, with its challenges, and rewards.
Are willing to continue their formal education and proactively seek to acquire advanced education in mathematics and related fields.
Aspire to evolve -through their knowledge and professional skills- into a diligent member of the scientific society.


Bachelor of Science (BS) in Social Sciences and Liberal Arts at IBA 
4 Years, Full-time Program

The BS in Social Sciences and Liberal Arts is a four-year undergraduate program where students can choose to major in one of these fields: Psychology, Political Science, Media and Culture, or History and a minor in one of these two: Literary Studies and Urban Studies. Courses that comprise the Liberal Arts and sciences component of the program, taken across all four years, introduce students to a range of academic disciplines including Philosophy, Literature, Visual Arts, Mathematics, Religion, Environmental Sciences, and Foreign Languages. This combination of core and elective courses allows students to develop comprehensive foundational skills in reading and writing, quantitative thinking, critical inquiry, and sustained research. Additionally, the Culminating Experience in the final year of the program allows each student to carry out an original research project of their own and complete two different summer internships: one focusing on social service and the other on research skills.

Undergraduate Program Coordinator: Ms. Yumna Fatima
Email: yfatima@iba.edu.pk