university of karachi (uok) currently offers following scholarships in 2026 session:

Sindh HEC Indigenous Scholarships for MS / M.Phil. and Ph.D. Students for FY 2025-26 :

Sindh HEC aims to provide equal opportunity to students from all socio-economic groups of
society pursuing M. Phil and Ph.D. programs in any of the discipline at University of Karachi.
Eligibility Criteria:
 Must be a Pakistani national and full time research fellow of this university.
 Synopsis should be approved by ASRB and CGPA should be 3.0 and above.
 Not availing any other scholarship.
 Not full time employed.
 Not a beneficiary of Prime Minister Fee Reimbursement Scheme
 Not have been awarded this scholarship during the last 4 years.
Award Money & Available Slots:
Award money is Rs. 230,000/- for each successful candidate for FY 2025-26 subject to receipt
of funds from donor agency. There are 53 scholarship slots allocated for this program.


Fresh Application: Need-Cum-Merit Based Scholarships-Zakat & Ushr Dept, Government of Sindh :
Need-Cum-Merit Based Scholarships
(Offered by Zakat & Ushr Department, Government of Sindh, for FY 2025-26)
Exclusively for Evening, M.Phil and Ph.D. Program Students
Information for Morning Program Students: Processing of scholarship applications for Morning
Program students have been completed and Scholarship Award Notification will soon be placed on University
website. No further application of Morning Program Students (FY 2025-26) will be entertained.
Information for Evening, M.Phil and Ph.D. Program Students:
1. The committee of aforementioned scholarship program has taken cognizance of recent policy
amendments in Zakat Disbursement Procedure amended by Sindh Zakat Council in its meeting held on
20-Nov-2025.
2. In the wake of this policy amendment the committee unanimously resolved that scholarship application
forms of Evening Program Students received before 20th November 2025 may not be processed further
and all such students are required to apply again on a prescribed form with additional documentary
requirements, if they intend to avail this opportunity.
3. Therefore all interested evening program students and M.Phil and Ph.D. students are hereby notified to
apply for the aforementioned scholarship as per details given hereunder:
Eligibility:
The applicant must be a Muslim citizen of Pakistan with permanent residency in Sindh Province, and
must be enrolled as a regular student at this University.
Application Procedure:
Interested Students are directed to fill-in prescribed scholarship application form downloadable at
www.uok.edu.pk/sfao/scholarships.php
Where to submit the filled-in complete application form?
Complete filled-in application form duly endorsed by the Chairperson of the respective departments
along with all supporting REQUIRED DOCUMENTS including ISTEHQAQ CERTIFICATE, are to be
submitted to Student Financial Aid Office, University of Karachi 


Professional Education Foundation (PEF) Scholarship Program – FY 2026 (Only for UBIT & KUBS) :
PEF Scholarship Program – FY 2026
Department of UBIT & KUBS, University of Karachi
(Only for the morning program, Current semester – 2026)
Applications are invited for limited scholarship seats under the Professional Education Foundation
(PEF) Scholarship Program for fresh students enrolled in 2026 at the Department of UBIT and
Karachi University Business School (KUBS). Scholarships will be awarded strictly on a merit-cumneed basis.
Candidate Eligibility
 Minimum 65% marks in Intermediate Examination
 Monthly family income not exceeding PKR 75,000/-
 Students currently in their first year of study
 Orphaned and handicapped students will be given priority
Mandatory Compliance (as per PEF Scholarship Form)
Applicants must submit attested copies of the following documents along with the scholarship form:
1. University ID Card
2. Two passport-sized photographs
3. Matriculation & Intermediate Mark Sheets/Certificates
4. CNIC / Birth Certificate
5. Latest Electricity & Gas Bills
6. Domicile Certificate
7. Death/Divorce Certificate (if applicable)
8. Medical Certificate (in case of disability)
9. University Admission Order
10. Income Certificate
11. Bank Account details (student/guardian)

Tabeer Fully Funded Undergraduate Scholarship Program-2026 Offered by (PSIP) :: Click here

Tabeer Fully Funded Undergraduate Scholarship Program-2026
Offered by Pakistan Skill Incubation Program (PSIP)
The Pakistan Skill Incubation Program (PSIP) invites applications for the Tabeer Fully Funded
Undergraduate Scholarship Program 2026, a national-level merit-based initiative offering financial
support to talented students enrolled in the University of Karachi.
Eligible Programs Include:
BA/BSc, ADA/ADS, MBBS/BDS, BBA, BS (All Disciplines), Pharmacy, LLB, DPT
Scholarship Value:
Up to PKR 2.5 Million in financial awards
Apply Online: www.psip.org.pk
Important Note:
This scholarship program is Directly Managed by PSIP.
All the applications, testing, and selection will be handled by PSIP independently.