he BS (Cyber Security) program intended to produce skilled professionals to understand the processes that impact information security, safeguarding information assets, collection and preservation of digital evidences, analysis of data, and identification and fixing of security vulnerabilities. The program will equip students with the fundamental knowledge of computer science that forms the technical foundation of the field, with an essential focus on experiential learning through laboratory exercises in the security courses. This degree is a state-of-the-art course with a perfect blend of Cyber Security that is designed to set the graduates up for immediate industry success by combining and leveraging today’s cutting-edge technology with real-world scenarios.

All Industries, Financial Institutions now have growing numbers of Cyber Security requirements. This Degree program provides students with a baseline understanding of what generally Cybersecurity is? Its threats landscape, vulnerabilities, and risks. Specifically the Practical Road map and work flow of Cybersecurity be taught. Why Cybersecurity is becoming so important these days. Ethical Hacking concepts and its scope. Different Linux platforms for Hacking and Penetration Testing. An overview of how basic cyber-attacks are constructed and applied to real systems is also included. Network attacks such as distributed denial of service (DDoS) and botnet- attacks are also described from the past couple of decades. Cyber Space & Cyber War Fare concepts are much essential these days. Hence the need for ‘Cyber Security’ arises.

Furthermore, it is well known that this is the age of specialization and emerging tech, Universities have started offering BS in areas such as Data Science (DS) and Artificial Intelligence (AI). Cyber Security (CySec) is also one of the emerging specializations which has gained popularity as a career prospect in Cyber World.

In recognition of this need, DHA Suffa University considers itself adequately equipped and well placed to offer this program under the Umbrella of its Computer Science Department.